From Hanselman it's dot
com. It's Hanselman. It's a
weekly discussion with web developer
and technologists. Scott Hanselman posted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number one Oh
four. Recorded live Wednesday, March 12th, 2008.
Support for Hanselman it's is
provided by tolerant. Already controls
the most comprehensive suite of
components for windows forms and
asp.net web applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support
is also provided by.net developers
journal. The world's leading.net developer
magazine online at www dot
dot com. In this
episode, Scott talks with Dave
Larrabee of exclaimed software about
alt.net. Hi, this is Scott
Hanselman, and this is another
episode of Hansel minutes. And
I'm sitting here with Dave
Larrabee of exclaim software, and
Dave is deeply involved in
the alt.net movement that did
you actually coin the term
alt.net? Yeah, I did a
C April wrote a post,
just kind of one of
those posts that you write
in 20, 30 minutes, they're
always the most successful the
ones you don't think about.
Yeah, exactly. So it was
kind of coming off of
the MVP summit that time.
I just got a, got
an invite from, I was
there as a special guests
and yeah, we had really
interesting conversation with some of
the guys from the entity
framework team, kind of trying
to convince them testability is
a main goal. And subsequent
to that Rhoda Rhoda, there
was a lot of energy
there wrote a post kind
of summarizing that event and
saying, Hey, you know, a
lot of us are looking
for alternatives to what Microsoft's
currently providing and open source,
things like that. And yeah,
it got a lot of
traction and got a lot
of links, got a lot
of comments and kind of
evolved from there. Kind of
ignited a movement. I called
it a movement because I
mean, I, I think that,
you know, I've really been
involved in the last few
years kind of agile and
open source and things like
that. And yeah, those things
are, I would say movements.
So we're looking at that
happening in the dotnet space
at innovation happening around agile
open source web 2.0 open
ID, you know, exciting things.
And I do think there
is a movement. If you
look at conferences I've spoken
at dev teach, for example,
that tracks that the agile
track gets bigger and bigger
every year. And it's gotten
to the point where it's
kind of standing remotely. So
there does, you know, in
a very literal sense seem
to be movement or trend
towards that. So largely that's
what we're saying. And when
we say movement, we're saying
there's, you know, guys gathering
up, meeting up and gals
and gals. Yeah. Yeah. We
want to encourage more of
that. Yeah. You got to,
we had two buzzwords here.
We've called alt alt.net.
dot net. Yeah. And we've
got agile and you know,
as, as with all labels,
one wants to examine them
to see if this is
the best word to describe
that thing. Yeah. So there's
two things I want to
dig in there. First agile.
Some people feel that agile
is just, you know, it's,
it's the roll up of
things like extreme programming, pair
programming and all those things.
It's agile practitioning, it's scrum.
Some people need in the
large enterprise think that agile
is just an excuse to
be sloppy in one's project
management. What does agile, Well,
let me first kind of,
kind of say that I
think agile just kind of
adopting it on a, it's
a process, right? It's a
software development process whereby we're
going to start delivering business
value from day one and
by day one, I mean,
iteration one. So two weeks,
three weeks, one week, whatever
it is, the goal is
that we're not going to
sit down and design a
big architect, a big, you
know, piece of software, the
grand design right now, we're,
we're not rolling Howard work
cell, right? We are simply
letting that design evolve or
more tending a garden than
building a skyscraper. So that
is a hard thing to
do. There's a skyscraper to
be built. Then, you know,
agile may not be appropriate
for you. I would say,
you know, safety, critical systems
is one Ben, one thing
that have come under fire
as far as agile, not
necessarily suiting that most business
applications though, however large can
benefit from this approach. It
gets hard when you want
to scale it and get
up to, you know, lots
and lots of people. But
there's certainly presses For that
is the scale. The number
of P is the issue
of scale, the number of
people or the size and
complexity and the breadth of
the application. I think that
size and breadth of the
application will drive the number
of people. Right. But you
know, in a large kind
of component oriented or service
oriented application, there's a lot
to deliver to get something
off the ground, or you're
doing a big rewrite. There's
a lot to go. So
I think we're agile has
come under fire. Is people
just kind of adopting it
and saying, Oh yeah, we're
doing agile. And it's really
a year long, two year
long, got to get coaches
in there. It's an investment.
It's a, maybe it's just
as hard to do as
waterfall. And yeah, you can
be successful with waterfall. I
mean, that's certainly a possibility
and I, you know, I
I've been on successful waterfall
projects, but I think there's
a huge, huge advantage to
not doing, you know, not
doing infrastructure for two weeks
to two months, three months,
you know, and then, Oh,
then we'll get to the
business value. The hard part
of the application is the
domain that you're working on.
And you know, that leads
us kind of down another
domain driven design or domain
specific way we should do
that. We should do a
thing on the yeah. And
that's, you know, these are
kind of the topics in
authentic. So to bring your
question around full circle, alternate
agile, it isn't just agile.
Right? Of course not agile.
Isn't a silver bullet. There
are no silver bullets, right.
Fred Brooks. But there certainly
is actually he's, he's the
uncle of a buddy of
mine. Really? Yeah. That guy
went to high school with
his uncles. Fred Brooks. Do
you just chill with Fred
Brooks at barbecue? I don't,
but I, I, but you
know, the whole six degrees
of separation, I am comforted
by the fact that I
am one degree of separation
from him. That's cool. If
I needed to get, if
I needed to get him
an urgent note, I wouldn't
have to go. So I
would have to use LinkedIn.
And that makes me feel
good about myself. You do
show notes, right? What's that
you do show notes like,
Oh yeah. We'll put things
in the notes. So you
should link to the Fred
Brooks did a, a podcast
that oops, no way conference
yet. And he's a really
interesting thing about where agile
breaks down large, you know,
That's fantastic for Fred Brooks
of course, author of the
mythical man month. Yeah. It's
a canonical, you know, it's
primary work I think in
our industry. Yeah. But it's
a great podcast is a
very controversial topic. I don't
know if I fully agree,
but definitely worth getting all
angles. So yeah, the alternate
thing totally about considering these
topics and just innovating, innovating
on dotnet pushing it to
the edge, helping each other
get better. So this is
interesting because when this term
came out, I think I
posted on your, most of
the comment on your post,
where I worked at Karelian
this, you know, last year
in April. And I was
like, why is this alternative?
Because I was working at
a company that was using
subversion and cover and unit
and dock before it went
away. And you know, we
were doing what we could
do to get the work
done. We were doing it.
We were moving from waterfall
to scrum, right. For our,
it was Scrummerfall for a
little while there, but we
went to a scrum process
and I thought it was
very pragmatic. And I was,
I was a huge fan
of the pragmatic programmer guys.
So when you said alt.net,
there was a big discussion
about, is this word divisive
because it's basically saying screw
you to Microsoft. What do
you think about that? Well,
I think, I think over
the last, my hope is,
and my sense, and I
may be disconnected. I'll allow
that as a possibility. But
I think my sense is
that the alternative has become
an alternative alternative in as
opposed to alternative to. So
we had a little leadership
summit out in New York city
in the winter. We had
Martin Fowler out there. He
made a really good point.
He said, and it kind
of clicked for me. And
I had been thinking this,
but you know, Nobody follows
through what she thought was
great because Martin will take
whatever you were thinking. And
you've been ruminating and trying
to write that blog and
he'd just nail it down
to like two sentences. Exactly.
Yeah. The chase. And he
said, look, we're working on
the.net platform. We're all, you
know, multi-platform developers here. We
work on various things at
various times, but in the
dominant space, let's get some
innovation happening. Let's start to
bleed in other ideas, let's
start to, you know, you
look at the work that
guys like Jim Hagan, John Lamb
are doing that's to me
an alternative. Now we can
program in Python in a
very real way. It is
it's all on the inside.
Yeah. So it, I think
we've kind of come to
terms a little bit with
the whole anti Microsoft riff.
It's not at all about
that. We're certainly getting huge
evolvement from Microsoft people guys
like Josh Holmes on the
ag side have really, You
know, he is an architecture
evangelist for that, Sorry, Microsoft
events. So I feel like
compelled to use acronyms. You
know, I just, there's so
many people who are listening
in other countries who may
not necessarily speak English in
any time we use a,
a TLA. I gotcha. We
gotta tell them that means
three letter acronym. Right. So,
so we've gotten so much
support and we, Scott Guthrie, you
know, Scott's the man, you
know, and from guys like
yourself, I mean, there's been
a big at first. It
was a little, you know,
what are these guys all
about? But now I think
it's just kind of, Because
you want to know what
their alternative, I mean, are
they coming to the
Microsoft? I guess me, I
guess that's why I'm them
now, am I coming to
all.net conference to crush you?
You know, is this an
uprising, you know, where the
spark of a spark of
all.net turns into the flames
of rebellion? No, I don't
think so. No, No, not
at all. I mean, I
just want to get stuff
done. You know, I I've
said this before, whether I
worked for Microsoft or whether
I work on my own,
I just like making good
software and I want to
feel good when I'm doing
it. And if a tool
feels yucky, yeah. That's such
a sophisticated word and I
won't use it. Like we
ended up using log for
net because it was just
effortlessly. One log is perfect.
So I used it And,
and that's exactly. I mean,
it's, it's great. It's great
to see like the patterns
and practices people. Thank you,
sir. Come out with something
like unity, it's an alternative
to an open source thing.
Right. That's cool. And they
work and we should have
as many choices as possible.
We should also be taking
inspiration from other communities such
as you know, we mentioned
agile, but why aren't we
looking at Ruby on rails?
Why aren't we looking at
the Ruby community? Why aren't
we looking at, you know,
web 2.0, what's going on?
We just launched Shea website,
all.net.org. It's kind of an
asinine Earl to say out
loud, All.net.org all the time
period org. Okay. And
I developed that on rails.
I wanted to have a
basis of comparison or looking
at MVC. I wanted to
be able to contribute to
NBC. And you know, we
also use open ID there,
exclusively love open-end D yeah.
I love it too. But
interestingly enough, even in this
kind of circle of people
that consider themselves, you know,
looking outwards, always there was
flak. Why would you choose
Microsoft? Not Microsoft people.net. People
were like, what's happening. Yeah.
This is annoying that I
couldn't just sign on with
a user And password. Well,
Oh man. I've had an
open ID for like, Yeah,
yeah, no, I've got it
hooked up to my blog
and it's clearly the way
things should, should go or
it's a very cool thing.
So, you know, we try
to find ways to feed
two birds with one seed.
We try to find ways
to, you know, introduce these
ideas into what can be
A kind of homogenous culture,
you know, Do you know
how to build web 2.0
Ajax applications with web 1.0
components, right? You just can't
in order to have next
generation web apps, you need
next generation components. And that's
exactly what our friends at
Tellerik have for you. Their
upcoming product code name, rad
controls Prometheus's is a huge
pack of web controls built
on top of Microsoft ASP,
net Ajax, which will add
previously impossible performance and interactivity
to your next project. Just
listen to this. The new
controls mirror, the ASP net
Ajax API. So development is
straight forward. Client scripts are
shared. So loading time is
pretty much instant. And if
you just set a couple
of properties, you'll be able
to automatically bind to web
services for even more efficient
operation. After all the facts
speak for themselves, the new
rad editor for ASP net
Ajax loads up to four
times faster than before. Similarly,
rad grid handles thousands of
records in mere milliseconds. But
again, it's best to try
for yourself visit  dot
com slash ASP net Ajax,
and download a trial. And
don't forget to thank them
for supporting handsome. That's the
issue of, of choice is
really interesting because there are
those that really like to
be, to be handed the,
the option like here's visual
source safe, right? This is
how we do source control
enjoy. And then they become
flummoxed when there's so many
choices. And I keep going
back and forth on this.
Like I, for awhile, I
wanted a mocking framework. That
was the one true mocking
framework, right. And then I
woke up one day and
there was tight mock rhino,
mock and mock, and now
mock with a hard cue
from, from Daniel Catalino. And
I finally have come to
terms with the fact that
I want to be able
to choose from a half
dozen ORMs object, relational mappers.
I want to be able
to choose from a half
dozen mocking frameworks and what
a cool thing that the
community has gotten together and
made this stuff actually. Inter-operate
right. And then now of
course, with MVC internally, they're
constantly angsting over angst and
they're just very concerned that
it needs to work with
all these different things, you
know, all the different testing
frameworks and all the different.
Yeah. I mean, I think,
I think Phil's the right
guy for that job. I
mean, he's definitely feel hack
is totally in the community
has been for a long
time, big, big time blogger,
any, you know, it's really
encouraging to see him kind
of scrutinizing over know let's
face it. The all tight
net community is a, there's
no shortage of opinions there,
you know, and they are
vocal and it is kind
of a community of leaders.
They are the people out
there speaking, they're all alpha
people. They are. I mean,
and, and you know, that's,
that's interesting. That's great. But
that brings with it. You,
you need a certain tough
skin kind of, you know,
quality we're, we're hoping that
we can kind of reduce
the tension There, but yeah,
you reduced the tension. You
reduced the pain. No, it's
so loud though. Sometimes I
think that people who jump
in to the Yahoo group
on all.net and people who
kind of kind of get
involved, find it to be
a little off putting, they,
they feel that, that they
don't understand the three, that
three letter acronyms. And maybe
they're not doing agile. I
always use this canonical person.
I don't know if this
guy exists, maybe he'll call
me. So David, I always
talk about the chief architect
at the Nebraska department of
forestry. Okay. Right. He's the
guy who's gotta just get
stuff done. He's gonna be,
he's got an access database
and he's trying to get
off that system, but he
wants to do the right
thing. What are the folks
that aren't alpha, alpha people
kind of obnoxious outspoken people
like us for giving her,
putting us into on us.
What do they care about
all.net? I that's a really
good question. I think I
kind of look at Altona
as having two purposes. One
is yes. Innovation is going
to come from the alphas.
It's gonna come from connecting
people in a social network.
And having those people work
on new open source projects
and criticize existing projects, it's
going to work on, you
know, it's going to work
on a level of establishing
a relationship with Microsoft, a
conduit for being able to
talk about that. The second
level it's, you know, our
second area or half of
the pie is that education
thing. Right? How do we
go out and start talking
to people? And I think
the answer is pretty simple.
Get out there, get blogging,
get out there, get speaking.
We're hoping to have a
lot of open spaces, events,
and it's a, it's a,
it's kind of a nascent
young movement. Right. But we're
having one in Seattle that's
maybe a little bit more
insider. It got Closed really
quickly. I felt that a
few minutes after the announcement
happened, the registration was closed.
Cause we'd hit the fire
code limit on what the
room would hold. Yeah. Pretty
much. Well, we're kind of
at the, you know, we're,
we're running this on a
pretty shoestring budget and we're
counting on the, you know,
a digit pen is, is
a, a company in Seattle.
That's, that's kindly giving us
some space and there's a
limit to how many people
we can fit. And we
do, I will say kind
of prime the pump as
far as trying to get
some of the visible people
out there with some great
attendees coming. How many what's
the ratio of? I mean,
there's alphas to folks that
just want to get involved
if it's, so if it's
so nascent, but we're still
filling up 250 people rooms,
how do we get, you
know, Joe public? How do
we get that chief architect
and the Nebraska department of
forestry to get involved If
you can't get in? Yeah.
Well hopefully, I mean management
cliche, number 437, you can
lead a horse to water,
right? Yeah. But I think
they're going to have to
kind of find it on
their own. One of the
things we talked about in
New York city is having a
deeper level of engagement with
the evangelism people, you know,
and like the Microsoft Exactly's
and stuff. Exactly. How can
we piggyback onto product launches
to provide a follow on
that's more practice value. Yeah.
Yeah. That's a good point.
I was here at mix
and we're here at mix
right now and I did
a talk. What was a
side talk sometimes when this
many Microsoft people come together,
we'll take a group of
them and have a meeting
because it's like, how often
do you get people from
all over the world in
one room? And you know,
there was some talk about
all.net, but there wasn't the
formal, you know, two hour,
here's everything you need to
know about this movement. Right.
Take it to the people.
Well, I have a couple
of projects that we're, we're
considering a, you know, this
is all volunteer and yeah.
You know, I'm, I'm day
to day running a software
startup and got a lot
of pokers in the fire.
So we do what we
can. But I think one
thing we're talking about is
having a, a street kit
where we could go out
there and be like, alright,
here's your autonomous data dump.
Anyone can kind of take
it, show you what we're
about. And the other thing
we're probably going to bring
back up when we, when
we meet out in Seattle
or Redmond actually in April
is the manifesto. Right. It
would be nice to have
a one sheet. Do we
stand for exactly? What do
we stand for? Are you
in, are you out? And
what is, what's a lightweight
protocol for, you know, engaging
in being apart Participating. Yeah.
So, so assuming that there's
still a few people listening
to this podcast, let's talk
about some concrete stuff towards
the end here, sir. What
are some of the technologies
that, that all.net people use?
What are those benefits? What,
what gaps in Microsoft stack
are those technologies filling? I
would take it a step
back and say principles and
practices are kind of, we
Let's start there. And then
I do want to get
to tooling though, because I
want people to know what
projects they can check on.
I think you're, you're kind
of basic, Oh, Oh, principles,
single responsibility, principle, object, orientation,
object, oriented principles, you know,
open-close principle last cough, you
know, substitution principle, all of
these things, how, you know,
does this affect the design
of an object system? And
let's face it, most systems
are object systems in this
day and age. So that's
certainly one thing we're considering,
you know, dependency, injection, you
know, and that is a
direct side effect of just
testability, maintainability quality. And I
think that most people in
this group identify themselves as
kind of crafts men, craftswomen
craftspeople people. And I think
that's where it kind of
all Stems from. So as
far as tools, the tools
would That kind of common
value system. So all of
these patterns that you just
rattled off and particularly, you
know, dependency injection, also Colin
version of control are our
principles for creation of good
software that allow it to
be more testable, separate concerns
between systems. These are our
patterns that are, that are
intuitive people. These are kind
of, you know, 20, 30
years of oops law, an
object oriented conference, it talks
about this stuff. It seems
like the number of people
who know those things, you
know, in the single digit
percentages. Yeah. So yeah, I
think you're right. That there's
the, the education about those
principles. And then once someone
values a principle, then they'll
go looking for a tool.
Absolutely. Absolutely. And tool-wise, I
mean, it runs the gamut.
I mean, you, you obviously
have your containers out there
which enable this inversion of
control situation castle. Windsor's a
popular one. You know, you
have all of your there's
unity there Let's use, let's
use that as an example.
We could probably do a
tooling podcast at some point,
but let's talk about why
do I care about inversion
control as a principal? What
value does that bring me
that would then lead me
to go find one of
these, these tools Mainly it's
going to bring you the
ability to control the dependencies
in a given class and
give that class at test
time, a fake object or
a mock object. Right? So
then that object can carry
expectations. So you can write
tests that very cleanly isolate
one particular class. So if
I want to paraphrase, if
I'm going to use a
class, let's say I'm going
to use a class that
represents a, a service that
calls flicker. Sure. And I'm
the user of that. So
I'm writing some code and
I'm, and I usually say,
you know, flicker service F
equals new flicker service. That's
how we've been making objects
forever. And in that chat,
in that sense, I'm in
control. I have asked for
a concrete thing. If I
understand correctly, then inversion of
control is flipping that on
its head. And I'm saying
that I don't really care
if I get the flicker
service, but I don't want
something that looks like a
flicker service. Right. And I
don't really care where it
comes from. And I really
don't want to be in
control of the creation of
that, that object and the
dependencies that that object may
have there. Is that correct?
Sure. Your object now is
starting to become more of
a component. Okay. And we're
getting to that distinction between
what's a class object, what's
a component and a component
we'll specify what it needs
from its environment, its container,
right? The benefit of that
is reuse clearly, right? So
you get testability reuse and
replaceability. So every class essentially
is a strategy. Every class
can the strategy pattern. Exactly.
So every, you know, that
strategy in a test scenario
is going to be a
mock. So if I wanted
to test my flicker service,
I could mock out one
aspect of its dependencies. Sure.
Perhaps the way that it
calls out onto the wire,
if flicker was down, I
still want my test to
pass. Right. But not other
aspects. So then I could
go into this container. We
keep using these kind of
vague terms. So then let's
talk about tooling. Then I
would go and find which
it dependency, injection container that
I want. So I go
get castle Windsor, which is
the name of a dependency
injection container and install it
in my machine. And I
do what You start writing
code. I mean, you start
writing your solution, but you
break your classes up into
very single responsibility type classes.
So single responsibility, a class
should have one and only
one reason to change a
better way to put it
a class should have one
responsibility and one reason for
living. Exactly. So you have
lots and lots of classes
and you start thinking about
the problem domain first, and
the benefit there is you
can worry about the infrastructure
later. I mean, infrastructure happens.
It's a really important thing
we have to think about,
you know, are we communicating
to exchange server? Are we
communicating to SQL server? Are
we communicating to some RSS
feeds somewhere, but that you
don't want to let that
hang you up necessarily. Right?
You don't want that to
be your first thing. So
by using a container, you
obviously get all that. So
I mean, as far as
the workflow goes, yeah, pick
your container. You're going to
be writing XML. That's how
all this stuff is glued
up. So you can say
my flicker service depends on
the, you know, I flicker
API. So that's the point
when you, when you tie
up the, the need, I
want something that looks like
a flicker surface, right. To
the concrete. So it's a
separate level of indirection, right?
They always say that any
problem in computer science can
be solved by one additional
layer of indirection. Right? This
is that indirection that literally
hides the new keyword. Yeah.
Yeah. You're I mean you're
as a user of services,
you're abstracting way new sure.
Letting somebody else handle that.
And then the benefits are
that you can plug reuse.
There, there are amazing benefits
to this. For example, you
say, I need this interface,
right? Who's to say, that's
not just written dynamically at
runtime and providing a whole
layer of interception. So when
you call this method, you
can actually get logging outside
of actually having to put
that in line with your
method, things like that. So
what you get from this
approach to software development is
the ability to make decisions
later, you get a certain
agility from your code base
and you can full circle.
Exactly. Exactly. Well, we got
to do a show just
on some of the tooling,
I think at some point.
Absolutely. Well, I really appreciate
you taking the time to
sit down with me here
at the mics. This has
been Scott Hanselman. I've been
talking to Dave Larrabee about
all.net. We'll see you next
week on Hanselman's .